and welcome back to a fresh episode of
the business growth show i'm your host
sam dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com
and if you haven't done so yet check out
our weekly email we're sharing
actionable website and marketing tips
useful podcasts free goodies resources
and much more to kick off your week with
a bag each and every monday why not give
it a shot over at businessgrowth.email
so joining me today i've got nicole
gates nicole's the director of marketing
over at mongoose he's a b2b marketing
leader specializing in demand gen
creative content social media campaigns
and building online communities for
brands nicole very well welcome how you
doing yeah i'm good thanks for having me
on
no worries so excited to chat we're
gonna be talking about a pretty fresh
topic i was just discussing with you off
air we haven't talked about webinars for
this show for about two years so i'm
looking forward to digging in we're
gonna be sharing how our audience how
everyone can grow a community
through
webinars
so yes yes it's gonna be a good one so
first and foremost nicole i thought i
thought webinars were dying off i
thought the days of using webinars to
pass leads to sales was was long lost uh
am i wrong
yeah i know it's you know emails dead
seo is dead webinar has been dead
as with all of those things that's not
always the case i think it's just more
around how people are using webinars and
you know how i've seen most people use
webinars you know they're kind of
glorified uh product demos almost um and
they're not really serving any purpose
to the people who attend the webinar so
that's usually where i see most
companies going wrong
yeah yeah yeah i think i think that's it
i mean i've got the mindset to be fair
i've never done that many myself because
i'm usually busy with a podcast and
every now and then i might get invited
on a webinar and surprisingly i think
i've shared this on the show but i got
invited to
a software company's webinar a while
back and it was just talking about
shifts in marketing and that was
actually one of the best
free tools that i've done in terms of
generating qualified leads for our
company that ever so we i they literally
invited me to speak on this webinar
probably
at one week's notice and i thought what
the heck might as well do it and we had
i think three call-ins and a couple form
submissions all within kind of 45
minutes of me being on this guest
webinar so for me i've had great
experiences but i know a lot of
companies that i've spoken to kind of
see them like i alluded to there is kind
of
to a glorified product damage like you
shared kind of forcing kind of email
sign ups shifting those off to sales as
qualified leads and it never really
works so well so i'm excited to dig in
and talk about how we can flip that on
its head how it can actually be a useful
tool
for building community
so um
yeah let's let's let's kind of share
let's let's talk about kind of examples
you've seen and and how it can be a
useful tool for businesses and your
thoughts
yeah i mean i think it all stems down to
what you're trying to get out of the
webinar so like we alluded to
um
a lot of the times people you know it's
a little bit clickbaity where they'll
have some sort of exciting
title that gets people to register and
then you know 10 minutes in it turns
into a product demo and the marketing
team just sends over all the attendees
and registrant lists over to sales and
calls it you know here's an mql we've
generated all these leads for you here
you go
um and then you know
it's probably not that great it's not
gonna convert so well but you know maybe
you got some interest in sales like
let's do another webinar and you do
another one and suddenly you don't have
anybody registering no one wants to come
back you know like you kind of lost that
initial kind of growth that you might
have had so i think shifting how you
approach webinars and seeing it more as
a nurturer and
community builder um okay really can
help elevate your webinar strategy i've
seen it i've done it myself probably in
the last three companies that i've
worked for and seen it work really
really well um and i think the number
one thing is not selling it's not a
place to start selling and pitching your
product right it's more about driving
value driving you know educating the
market and using it as an opportunity to
really um
you know communicate with your target
audience or your icp similarly like how
you're doing here with a podcast but on
a much you know larger scale where you
could have we have about 200 people who
attend our webinars weekly um which is
fantastic and it's a great way to you
know you're interviewing customers
you're interviewing prospects you know
exactly what's on their mind what trends
and topics are they're frustrated with
and it just helps continuously generate
more content and more ideas for you in
the future
yeah it sounds almost like what you're
doing is like a live conversation with
your target market
yeah we um
we don't do you know like having a
slides a deck or presentation we have
two co-hosts and then we encourage
everybody to come on with their screens
on as well and participate in the
conversation and
we'll usually pick a topic that you know
we know is resonating or is something
that everyone's interested in and while
we'll have a
you know like an outline of what we want
to talk about we do keep it pretty
free-flowing so people can come in ask
questions
put something in the chat and um just
utilize the chat to kind of have a
conversation and see what people are
thinking and the feedback that we're
getting on that topic
awesome yeah i like it so
with that in mind
if a company is doing a webinar in your
opinion nicole what should be the main
goals what should be the main results
that you're actually aiming for from it
i could see it as you know it's a little
bit of top of a funnel tactic so it'd be
more about getting in front of your
target audience growing some
leads i guess in terms of getting people
to register
and then using it to
understand your target audience but also
you're creating content from it so
we use it to
slice and dice into social media paid
advertising
um put it on our podcast on our blog so
using it as a way to kind of get in
front of the audience but also then use
that content for other things and start
positioning yourself as a thought leader
within your space um we've seen a lot of
success where
people are saying like we we do a lot of
surveys out to our registrants and
seeing like what they want to see and
everything and everybody's saying that
it's like one of the most useful tools
for them specifically in the higher ed
market where you know we are
um
they just see it as like a really useful
tool where they can come in learn
something really valuable and take away
without having to do any sort of
transaction with us
got it got it so it sounds like this
there's quite a lot of benefits in terms
of both
having the target prospects having a
target audience in there asking
questions live
getting feedback understanding what they
want to know right now as well as i
guess nurturing over time on
subtly on what your company offers and
being positioned as a useful resource
and then also the the other aspect of it
that you can slice and dice the the
video content the audio content that's
produced and like you mentioned put it
into a podcast a video series get some
nice mini clips for linkedin for socials
and all that juicy stuff just like we do
with the show and many other shows do
too so it sounds like quite a useful
exercise on that front um
how how do from from your experience how
do webinars actually build a community
is it from what we've shared there was a
bit more to it
yeah i mean i think it's that if you
treat the people who attend and register
um not as sales prospects but more as
just like um a community that you're
trying to build and you're not you're
not just sending over those contact
leads to immediately be sent
followed up with sales
you can really see some really good
traction and if you are really providing
a lot of great value to them as well um
you're going to just see that grow so we
kick started our webinar series back in
february and i think we have around 2
500 people coming and because we don't
pitch like there's opportunities for
people to put their hands up we do have
some lead scoring in the background and
some self-attribution
forms around so we can make sure we can
track success of it but that's not the
ultimate goal of that and i think the
ultimate goal is like we're trying to
nurture we're trying to educate and
we're not trying to sell and so people
appreciate that they keep coming back
they're sharing it with their friends
they're sharing it with their colleagues
and we're seeing just really continual
growth there versus you know like an
email drip campaign where you start
seeing drop offs as the email came pain
goes we're seeing an increase in more
nurture sequences with that
interesting stuff so
from your experience how effective can a
webinar be say compared to the rest of a
marketing mix that a company might take
on board um have you seen it like over
time generate a good chunk of inbound
leads and and revenue from your sales
team or is it kind of moderate compared
to other channels say that you might do
on i don't know pay-per-click or seo or
field marketing and events what have you
kind of seen and those type of results
yeah i mean you know with anything
attribution is hard and it's all a mix
of everything um but since we started
our
webinar series um you know we're
tracking the pipeline throughout the
different channels
and you know we're seeing an increase in
direct organic and actually paid um
channels since we've been doing this
webinar series
and you know originally we were kind of
just like oh people are finding your
blog or you know their our ad keywords
are just really spot on but when you
started to dig in deeper it was actually
just brand um keywords that were driving
all of those channels
and so you start to realize that
probably the webinar and using the
webinar to kind of facilitate most of
your content strategy is really driving
the increase in those organic brand or
direct and paid channels
yeah because i suppose it's fuel for the
fire almost like you're talking about
earlier like if you can create all this
content that's literally answering quite
a lot of your community's questions
people that are potential prospects and
then you can position that using demand
generation plays i
chop that up into little useful videos
distribute that on linkedin ads in front
of your target market if that was for
example i don't know um marketing
officers marketing directors or whoever
your players
you're literally giving them content
that's interesting to them and then
positioning yourself as a as a go-to
brand over time i guess
yeah and you know like i always believe
in you know work smarter not harder um
and you know having kind of that main
hub which for us is the webinar series
to
facilitate the rest of your content for
the rest of your channels it's such like
an easy way to kind of just always be
producing content always have content on
hand and always be getting immediate
feedback whether it's live on the
webinars or you know comments on social
media that kind of facilitate next
week's themes or topics or guests that
we bring on um and it just becomes kind
of like a content demand engine almost
that you can just have working on the
side while you're doing you know more
little experiments or testing other
things or maybe doing product launches
or what else what other
other priorities you kind of have going
on within the marketing team which we
know we have
a lot sure
i think it's one of those things right
content is quite often with
organizations i've dealt with on our own
it's sometimes quite tricky to think of
topics on the spot so there's nothing
better than literally ripping stuff
answering audiences questions because
for one if you've got industry experts
in there you know the answers they're
straightforward for you and it's it's
natural conversation it's not forced
it's not like
talking in front of a camera which i do
too much of and
yeah i like i like it so let's take this
let's let's give some actionable
audience as we'd like to do let's walk
through a step-by-step nicole of
how if the company's tuning in now and
they're thinking oh i like the sound of
these webinars they actually sound
better than i first anticipated let's
talk talk through almost an 80z of the
beginning what you need to think about
before you set up your webinar right
through to and repurposing which we've
talked about now so what are some of the
first steps if we're an organization we
think yeah we want we've
perhaps got a little bit of budget a
little bit of resources that we can
assign to this what should be the first
thing that you think about before you
get stuck in
yeah i'd say step number one is getting
buy-in from the rest of the organization
especially sales so that you are aligned
on what the purpose and objective of the
webinars are going to be
that's usually critical to the success
of it but then step two would be talking
to customers prospects listening to
sales calls really understanding what
those key problems are that um your
target market's having so before we even
started we did a lot of customer
listening a lot of feedback from sales
listening to prospect calls and kind of
understand what those key blockers are
and what those key topics are and so
before we even launched the webinar we
kind of had an idea of what
three to four of the main topics were
and we launched it with probably the
most
um you know sought after topic which is
not the most like attractive topic in
the world but it was around compliance
and texting compliance but we found that
all of the schools and universities that
you know are in our target market they
really were concerned about being
compliant and so you know we put
something like here's how to stay
compliant in 2022 and we gave a free
resource with a texting policy
and we ended up like
i think we sold out i don't know how
what the official term is um our zoom
like allowance that we had at the time
which i think was a thousand um we ended
up having to do a second um webinar
series just to kind of make sure we were
getting everybody in who wanted to see
it and so kick starting it with a topic
that you know is really going to
resonate um you can do some testing
first if you want to in terms of like
paid advertising maybe doing some social
media posts um you know i often kind of
put out topics on my own linkedin to see
like what kind of feedback and um if
this resonates with the audience a
little bit to kind of test and then
we'll put it out into our webinar
and then so then once you kind of have
ideas on topics and themes and blockers
that you want to cover yeah making sure
you figure out what that format looks
like so for us we wanted it to be very
conversational we didn't want to have to
do powerpoints we also wanted it to be
an easy lift and an easier lift is just
kind of going in and like this talking
to a camera ideally it's better when you
got someone else kind of interacting
with you so we do have two co-hosts but
we also encourage everybody else to
have their cameras on but
figuring out what format works best for
you
um so that's kind of i guess the first
steps in terms of just kicking it off
yeah let's break that down a bit so
we've got first off buy in with your
your internal team your sales team and i
guess whoever else is going to be
working on the project or use
following up with leads whatever it may
be is is that from your experience very
difficult nicole is that something
that's quite easy or is there usually
quite a lot of turbulence and pushback
yeah i don't think it's necessarily
difficult but i've had experiences where
i kind of ran too fast um with things
and then had to kind of peddle back
um so that's why you know i've lived and
learned and so now my first step is
always to get buy-in and usually
if you can always approach the
the conversation understanding the other
person's shoes which in this case would
be like sales or the leadership team
and which usually ties down to revenue
and explaining it in a way that benefits
them and shows why this change
is going to help them in the long run um
really helps and you know there is a lot
of conversation around short term versus
long term
results and this is a little bit of a
longer term play than typical webinar
strategies but in the long run you do
see much it it's educating your market
out on the channels that they're already
on and by the time they come into sales
they're ready to buy which you know is a
sales person's dream that they're just
like yeah here's my money like let me
know how where to sign the contract yeah
i mean for me just from and i'd be
biased because i've done this kind of
stuff for ages but just the fact that
it's almost a content engine
means that you're kind of saving money
and resource on getting a third party to
film those things for you record those
things for you and all that stuff
so it splits a lot of things into one
yes you you spend some time you spend
some resources doing this but then once
you've done it you can get a lot heck of
a lot of replay value out of it
so i think that alone as well as all the
other benefits that we'll chat about is
is big for sure um cool and then you
mentioned kind of talking to customers
listening to sales calls for these these
kind of problems these frustrations to
fuel the the content the topic ideas for
the webinars
yeah so um just really understanding
what those themes are within your target
audience so that when you are
announcing these webinars it's not like
how product x can fix this it's more of
like here's five ways to
better
market or communicate with students is
like a really broad example but really
knowing that you're speaking to specific
problems that your target audience is
really having so
that's why i always encourage like even
my team like i encourage them to be
listening to a certain amount of
customer calls a certain amount of sales
calls because that's where kind of the
best topics come up and you know sales
and client success have different
objectives with those calls and you
might hear something that they might
miss and you're just like wow this this
topic keeps coming up a lot when i'm
listening to this maybe we can create
some content around it so this isn't a
problem every time the sales team is
having a demo call definitely the great
thing about doing that as well is that
if you then
as we've talked about a lot repurpose
that content and if you make specific
clips whether that is video and then you
stick it on youtube after it's edited or
audio or then you do an article on your
website that content is searchable
and yeah it's got real demand for it
because your customers are bringing this
up as a question or a problem a lot that
means other customers must be too so
they're probably literally searching
like how to do x or best ways to fix why
and then if you stick it on your website
as a useful article put on youtube
that's searchable it's going to build
more it's going to capture more demand
over the time educate more of the market
and over time generate generate more
inbound for your business yeah it's
really smart at that kind of yeah i've
actually seen um really good success
with breaking it down and then putting
it into paid social um campaigns as well
and then using that in my retargeting
campaigns for people who visited the
website but maybe didn't take an action
um or you know people who are in like
look-alike audiences closer to my icp
just to again get that content and
in front of the right eyes um and have
them really understand like the problems
that we can help them solve
awesome
i like it okay good and then talked
about the format i know you shared a few
ideas on that any any best practices you
think when it comes to webinars and how
you actually format them
yeah um i do kind of like the more live
interaction i think people you know when
people talk about webinars are dead i
think they talk about you know having
the slide deck up and you're going
through and it's you know like your
typical kind of process so i think
steering clear from that um
is best but i know that kind of scares
people so at first when we were
moving towards this we did a few test
ones before we launched the series um
we would have slides you know i felt
like they were kind of a little bit of a
safety net but they're very vague
and they didn't have a lot of text it
was kind of more like image heavy so
that there was more of that conversation
just to get the people who were used
like speaking on our webinars kind of
used to just talking on the fly and not
having to have a script or you know
something to go through
but i've seen the most like
the best success happen when you're just
similar to this but on a larger scale
just having a conversation allowing
people to come in and have questions
that you've may you'd not anticipate but
then it might open up a whole new topic
that you know resonates with everybody
who's listening
um i need to try that on this show
really question and answers um live
audience style just like just like
you're doing just like state of command
jen with chris walker
right yeah it definitely opens up a lot
more um complexities like here's great
because you can just focus on you know
me and you are just talking but we have
someone that's kind of in the background
like answering questions in chat or
you know um making sure the technical
side is all kind of set up because
with um we we use zoom as like for our
tech and you have to use you can't use
zoom webinars which gives you a lot of
those you have to use zoom meetings and
there's not as much control
um so there's some technical things
people are unmuting when they shouldn't
be muted when they should yeah yeah you
know so you kind of have to have someone
in the background making sure that men
smoothly so that the um hosts can just
focus on the topic at hand
sure so yeah so you need like you
rightly said you need to make sure
you've you probably you'd probably
struggle if it was just one host trying
to manage everything yes probably want
someone on admin kind of
unmuting stuff getting people queued up
to take the questions and although all
those good points so um
yeah that's interesting and if anyone's
tuning in and they think the business
growth show should do a live q a get in
touch on business growth.marketing and
if we get enough demand we'll we'll make
one happen
cool so those are the first few points
once you have sorted that nicole
what what should come next should we
start finding guests for the show should
we get internal guests should we start
promoting it or what's the logical next
step
i think at first
doing a few on your own um the whole
point is to really position your company
as thought leaders and you don't want to
rely
immediately too heavily on guests um
so i think kind of you know figuring it
out there's some tweaks that are always
you know need to be ironed out when
you're first kind of starting off a
series you kind of find your rhythm um
so i'd recommend first you know
just hosting it by yourself not bringing
in guests um and seeing what traction
comes in and then
then start seeing where guests might fit
in and so having those first few and
some of those like results really helped
us kind of bring in guests um because
then you can kind of show the benefit
already and so
we actually when we first reached out to
some influencers in the higher ed market
to come on and co-host with us
they were similarly to you like well
what is this just like a pitch for our
product like i don't understand why i'm
on here and we have to like explain to
them like no that's not how we approach
this so it was good to show examples of
like here's
previous ones that we've done here's
results here's feedback that we're
getting and it helped convince a lot
more of our guests to come on and now
actually we have like a waiting list
already
for people to come on to our
to our show but i would say a learning
with bringing on guests which we can
talk more detail into like how to
approach that but having a balance
between um guests and you self-hosting
is key you don't want it to just be you
know um if you're using this as like
nurturing and thought leadership you
really want to make sure that people see
you
as a thought leader and not the people
who you're bringing on
yeah yeah yeah i mean that's kind of
quite selfishly what i did with this
show i mean we do we tend to do one one
guest episode a week in one solo episode
so it means every now and then i can
pretend i know what i'm talking about
when it comes to websites and seo and
then i'll bring in guest experts like
yourself to share marketing tips for the
audience so yeah i like that now
you mentioned you you start the way you
started it was to do it internally with
your own team showcase that you're the
your experts in your field share
obviously useful insights to your
audience and build up that trust build
up that credibility in the market
how do you
prove the concept how do you know
what are some things to look out for to
say yep this webinar is doing well let's
let's keep it going let's not accept and
when the ceo or the cmo is putting
pressure on you saying well it's been a
it's been a few weeks now we've spent
quite a lot of money on this um can you
can you show me some results what's the
what should we look out for
yeah um i mean we look at registrants
who are signing on every week but then
we also look at new contacts that are
being brought on that weren't
necessarily in our database beforehand
so those are two like meeting indicators
that we look at at first and then we
also look at as best we can repeat um
attendees so people who are showing up
to more than one or two or three and
showing like if we're seeing a really
high number of people who are attending
almost every week or engaging with our
content pretty frequently i also see
that as a good indicator that this is
working really well
um we also did do a survey out to our
registrants and attendees like probably
like a month and a half or two months in
just to kind of get a feel of like
what do you like what don't you like um
how many of you attended just kind of to
see get some feedback and also some
topic feedback and
the testimonials we got were amazing
like people just loved us they were just
raving about us which was great so like
being able to just show like here's our
target audience and this is here's
someone from this school who we've been
trying to get in front of like for three
years and they just said that this is
their number one thing that they look
forward to every week like having those
testimonials and those like prospect um
stories is usually a winner when you
talk to your cmo or ceo
yeah i mean if you can prove to i
suppose
leadership in your company that you're
building up nurturing these
relationships with target key accounts i
don't think there's going to be too much
pushback right right yeah exactly
good stuff so you said you have got some
tips for
when you're ready to to get guests on
this on your on your webinar what are
some some things that we should consider
when it comes to that
yeah i think um you know having a wish
list is really good of influencers and
people in your industry that you want to
bring on
and we kind of first approached people
who we could see a mutual um
relationship with we're like we're going
to do this one thing for you and we know
that they'll see
the plus of kind of getting that
additional exposure so we approach it as
like hey we just love your content we
would really love to have you on as a
guest here are some results and some
feedback we've been getting on this
webinar we'd love to kind of just have
an open conversation to see if this is a
good fit so we started it with that and
just seeing like hey we just are
admirers of you we really like your
content and we'd like to get you on the
show with no ask back you know it's just
more of like
getting them on building that
relationship and so far
you know it's been hit or miss if people
are like interested in it um those who
are interested are
you know blown away that it's not a
powerpoint and it's just like droning on
about whatever
they love the audience interaction that
they get because for them too that's
probably within their target audience
too and they're getting exposure they're
getting feedback
um
but then they just love that interaction
and it's fun and it's exciting and then
we package it up and send it over to
them
afterwards um and they love that because
then they're also getting free content
without really having to do too much
yeah i mean for them i can't really see
any any negatives for it as it's almost
free promotion and positioning them as
an expert in their space in front of
most likely their target audience
so
over time they're probably going to win
some business off it eventually if not
quite quick and in the medium to long
term especially with the ongoing
promotion and repurposing of content and
things so it's almost a no-brainer for
most people exactly which just like this
podcast a lot of the guests that come on
over time they'll pick off some business
off the back of it that's right exactly
because we'll remarket it pretty well so
yeah it makes sense so
okay so we've kind of prepped everything
we've thought about the format we've
thought about the guests we're reaching
out to
um what what comes next do we start
promoting and marketing the show or do
we dive into actually doing some
recordings or
um i mean i think at first kind of
diving in and testing it out and then
once you get rolling a little bit i
think that's a good time to start really
pushing and marketing it so we probably
didn't do promotion
outside of like our usual social media
and stuff until like a month in um just
so we could have testimonials feedback
some numbers um so we could create a
little fomo in our advertisements of the
webinar
um
so you know kick off first test it out
see what that initial reaction is from
just your existing database at least at
first
um and then use that early on traction
to kind of help grow and promote the
webinar
got it got it and from your experience
nicole is there a good duration that you
should aim for like 30 minutes an hour
or anything like that
does it depend
i think it depends we usually you know
like minimum i think 30 minutes is good
but we do like to open up so that like
we have our we try to have our topics
cover at least 30 minutes of some sort
of discussion and if it you know goes
longer and it's a good discussion we're
happy to go over so we we lock out an
hour for um
our sessions and in people's calendars
but some are 30 minutes some are 45 i
think anything under an hour because
once it hits an hour people start like
looking at their watches and they've got
other places to go
um
but minimum 30 max an hour
yeah just let the conversation kind of
flow
cool okay got it and in terms of
actually getting those signups it sounds
like you've had some great success i
know you mentioned one of the first one
was sold out so
was it initially you you just did it on
organic side of things with no paid
behind it i.e perhaps emailing to email
lists perhaps getting your team to put
it on socials
with images or videos and links in the
comments and
when just just so i can give the
audience really tuning in some ideas on
what you should perhaps do from an
organic front and then what you should
perhaps consider from a paid front
yeah um yeah we were really fortunate
that we you know sold out it exceeded my
expectations honestly of that first one
um but we did first do you know like an
email blast to people who were in our
database already but we thought we're
specifically interested in that topic
and then we did do social media posts so
we did one on our brand but we also had
you know like our sales people and
marketing and ceo kind of also promote
it on their own social media networks
and then we just did um boosted paid
social to you know like our followers
and everything so that was kind of the
initial thing um you know i didn't want
to put too much paid
behind the first one even though we
ended up getting way too many eyes but
like you know it's the first one you
don't know like how it's gonna go
um so i just wanted some initial
traction so we could see how it
resonated um so i wouldn't be too
worried if someone's trying and they're
not getting like a ton right away it's
fine it's a build up um
and be okay with like you're you know
you're testing it out you're kind of
figuring out the kinks first and then
start thinking about how can i put a
strategy behind this to really gain some
exposure and get this in front of new
eyes
yeah yeah yeah it makes sense i suppose
it depends on the size of your company
and where you're at and what the
marketing you can do initially and what
you can put against paid but i think
starting small and then growing over
time just like we did with this podcast
i mean to start with those hardly anyone
listening and as we've grown as we build
up an audience and as we've marketed
more heavily more and more people tune
into us natural kind of progression so
yeah
yeah i mean yeah go ahead oh sorry and
um just to add on to that i mean because
then you're chopping it up and putting
it on social media so they'll get some
natural organic on that side too um and
we always have in our like comments for
all of our micro videos like register
for our series and that also helps you
know just organically kind of grow
registrants without you having to pay um
advertising to get there
excellent so we've talked about a bit
but let's let's dive a bit deeper into
some of the replay value that you've
seen when it comes to okay we've done
the show what can we do with it now
what's the the max output we can we can
get from it and your recommendations
yeah there's so much um like we have so
much content now from all these webinars
that like i have to remind my team to
like go back to previous webinars and
make sure that like we're repurposing
some of that content that we talked
about there might be like one little key
nugget that was on this one topic that
resonates now in july that maybe didn't
resonate as much back in april just
because of the cycle of the school
system
um so
when we first finish up a webinar i'll
have my team go through and kind of like
figure out which blocks that they want
to chop up um we'll also put it on
youtube we'll put it on it'll we'll
embed that video onto a blog as well
that kind of covers most of the topic we
put it on our podcast so that's already
without us even chopping things up like
three things three channels that we're
covering immediately with pretty low
effort
um and then there's the social video so
chopping it up only for organic social
but also for your page strategy too um
so we have on a schedule that's pretty
regular in terms of like releasing a
video and then having like a thought
leadership piece later and kind of
putting those into rotation branding
them nice like you do here you know
making sure it's got a nice header and
footer and people
recognize that it's coming from our
brand when it's in their news feed so
then people start anticipating it and
know what to expect
um and then using it for paid
advertising in the same vein like
looking at how you can use those clips
for different types of strategies that
you're using for that demand capture
strategy you have so
we sometimes repurpose some of the
content to
registrants of the webinar to kind of
remind them like oh we had this great
conversation
maybe they missed it um we repurpose it
into people who
came to our website who people who are
followers are of us
um or we just do look alike lists of
current current clients and so there's a
lot of opportunities and i don't even
think we've necessarily found all of the
opportunities that can be uh
content yeah there's just so much and
there's only so much you can do i mean
when you're saying things now it's
giving me ideas like
especially when you said like sending
because i do this every now and then
like if i've got a piece of content
rather than me explain to someone on a
phone or a zoom call for five minutes
i'll just say i'll shoot you this video
that literally gives you everything you
need on this topic and then you can
watch or listen to it at your leisure
um so you've got that as well as the the
other ways
exactly yeah we send um little micro
clips to our sdrs and say like here's
you know
some micro clips that talk about this
topic or you know we had a client on as
a guest and so here's success stories of
exactly how they've used our product
that came up naturally and organically
um and just give them like a little bit
of a library of video content where it's
not us telling the story it's someone
else kind of explaining the story and us
just being more of the thought leaders
around it yeah yeah that kind of stuff's
great because it saves your sales team a
lot of time
yeah they can they can send that to
prospects or to customers to answer
their questions handle objections and at
the same time it saves them time too as
well as all those good angles that
you've talked about when it comes to
marketing or putting paid behind it so
there's a lot of a lot of value you can
get don't squeeze out of these these
things have you got any advice on
frequency nicole is there like a
frequent in terms of should companies
start by doing one a month or
what what your recommendations are
i
i mean consistency is definitely key um
i think one a month is a little too
infrequent um because people kind of
forget i think maybe every other week's
a good start if you want to start there
um but making sure that you have when
people sign up they're signing up for
all of them so that it's like a long
event list and they don't have to
re-sign up every single time is probably
key i think if you have to push people
to register every single week they're
not going to do it so just having that
reoccurring schedule um similarly like
what refine lab does um we might have
stolen that from them
um but um just making it as easy as
possible for people to sign up and have
that in their calendar is key um but
yeah i think especially depending on the
size of your team and how many resources
it is like kicking it off it's
definitely can be time consuming at
first until you kind of figure out that
groove
um so you know don't
don't make it so hard where you're not
able to keep it up but make it
consistent enough where you can continue
to kind of grow that audience and get
people engaged and knowing like okay
every tuesday at 2 p.m like this is on
and can i make it this week okay yeah
like i'm gonna join um so that they
understand what that frequency looks
like and when to come on
got it yeah yeah yeah so people are
people get familiar with the time and
date that you're gonna gonna be doing it
and it's not too far apart that you lose
interest got it yeah yeah um for anyone
that's listened so far and they thought
this all sounds well and good but i'm
sure starting a webinar is going to be
way too expensive is is a webinar
something that's going to break the bank
can you do it on a budget from your
experience
yeah it's definitely budget-friendly um
i mean if you can get a zoom account of
some sort
um and then you just have the resources
whether that's a marketing person or
maybe it's a salesperson or i we like to
have you know people who are
um like
they really understand the industry on
their subject matter experts that's the
word i'm looking for
um someone who really knows how to talk
to that industry on there so as long as
you have a person
and that can talk someone who can handle
the technical sides of it and then you
just you have the zoom accounts and
you know there's a little bit of spend
when it comes to you know paid but also
like video editing if you need to
outsource that or if you have it in
house but honestly it's very i think
it's very budget-friendly and you can
kind of make it work with when what
within whatever budget you have
yeah yeah yeah i mean from what you've
shared there it sounds like probably
similar to a podcast perhaps
where as long as you've got the zoom
webinar account and you've got you've
got webcams your team have got mics
you've got an industry expert you've got
someone to assist with the production
side of things then you're pretty much
good to go and you can start getting
people to to sign up and scale it as you
grow
yep exactly and that start investing
more in it get better mics get better
cameras you know um but you know you can
start with your computer camera and your
little
earphones and um just see how it goes
awesome good stuff well i think we've
covered uh cover this nicely nicole in
terms of kind of getting started on
webinars how to do them kit you need and
and the success they can bring for for
businesses is there anything you've
missed that we feel is kind of quite
important that we've not yet covered
um i think those are the key points in
terms of getting started and why um
there is the aspect of as it grows and
it nurtures um and you're getting like a
lot of people who are coming on it's a
really good facilitator to building a
community so i've used it in
other aspects where like i ended up
driving them to more of like a private
facebook group or linkedin group where
we could continue this conversation they
would get more exclusive content there
right we would share things but then
you're starting to house like a
community of people who are your icp and
you can contact them only and that's it
um so there is some ways to leverage you
know the growth and nurturing that you
have in webinars to start facilitating
community growth which is a whole other
kind of strategy and discussion probably
for another day
but i've just seen really good success
you know everybody's always talking
about like how do i build community i
don't really understand how to do it
webinars is like a key building block
and i've seen really great success in
kind of building that strategy with
webinars
got it so directing people to another
channel be it like a facebook group or a
slack group that's
getting is that kind of more of the same
and i guess then you can communicate
with them a lot more frequently than you
could on the webinar and engage with
them
yeah exactly
so just another avenue for them to have
conversations forums continue the
conversation
um need to make sure you have someone
who's like helping facilitate that and
stuff
um but it's it's an easy leap um so like
once you've already got people enjoying
your content
coming frequently it's a very easy leap
to get them over onto a private
community board of some sort
makes sense awesome nicole thanks very
much really appreciate you coming on
sharing how to build a community through
webinars
please do tell us more about how
everyone tuning in can learn from you
connect with you and anything you'd like
to point our audience to
yeah i mean it's pretty simple um just
follow me on linkedin um i post there
pretty frequently i like to network and
you know connect with people of all
types of marketing i love talking about
marketing all day long um and yeah
that's pretty much where the best place
you can find me
awesome and we'll put the links there
over in the show notes at
businessgrowth.marketing
and with that thank you once again
nicole enjoyed thank you thanks me too
no worries and as always if you enjoyed
today's episode why not leave us quick
rating if you're tuning in on the audio
podcast or if you're on youtube a quick
subscribe goes a long way and with that
said we'll catch you on the next episode
for more actionable marketing tips to
grow your business and grow your revenue
cheers for tuning in